48-year-old female; Can't answer where she is or what her name is (but she normally can); Takes Tylenol all the time for migraine, but recently took more.
12-year-old female; Temperature 104 F (40 C); Has nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
64-year-old male; Pain is in middle of chest under breast bone; Sweating and having trouble breathing.
45-year-old male; Severe pain; Pain starts on left side and travels to groin; Has nausea and vomiting; Squirming in pain.
18-year-old male; Has fever 102; Neck stiff; Light bothers him.
65-year-old male; Has chest pain that worsens when he takes a breath; Had surgery last week; Has swelling and pain in his left calf.
8-year-old male; Rash is worse on the ankles and wrists; Has joint pain and headache; Was camping recently.
70-year-old male; Can't use his right arm; Has high blood pressure and abnormal heart rhythm; Has nausea and vomiting.
65-year-old male; Having a hard time opening his mouth; Cut himself while gardening; He is restless and irritable.
67-year-old female; Has lung disease and smoked cigarettes; Increased cough with green phlegm; Can't speak in complete sentences.
27-year-old female; Recent cold; Wheezing and coughing when sitting; Trouble breathing when walking around house; Has asthma; Inhalers don't help her anymore.
78-year-old female; Ate very salty foods recently; Gaining weight and legs are swollen; Had a heart attack several years ago; Trouble breathing when sitting on the couch; .
45-year-old man; Redness started quickly over a day; He thinks he has a high temperature, but he didn't check; Leg is swollen; Leg hurts to touch it, but he didn't cut it or bump it that he remembers.
7-year-old female; White stuff in back of throat; Painful front of the neck; No cough, no congestion; Temperature 102.
27-year-old female; Recent cold; Wheezing and coughing, especially at night; Has asthma; Inhalers only help for a couple of hours.
67-year-old female; Has lung disease and smoked cigarettes; Increased cough with green phlegm; Using inhaler every 6 hours.
65-year-old female; Right leg is swollen, red, and painful; Was in hospital last week for pneumonia; Has mild heart disease.
4-year-old male; Nothing unusual in diet though did have a hamburger at a cookout 3 days before pain started; Has fever; Diarrhea may have blood in it.
18-year-old male; Has fever of 103.1F; Recently returned from Africa.
65-year-old male; Cough brings up green phlegm; Breathing fast and shallow.
16-year-old female; Trouble swallowing ; Extremely tired.
14-year-old male; Had diarrhea 10 times in 18 hours; No blood in diarrhea; Has temperature of 103.1F; Attended a picnic recently and ate undercooked chicken.
77-year-old male; Pain was first and was then followed by rash in same area as pain; Feels unwell in general; Rash becomes clear pockets of fluid on top of skin after 3 days.
26-year-old female; Has urgent need to pee; Recent sexual activity; No fever, but some back pain; .
17-year-old male; Bumps come and go and then come in new places on face.
35-year-old female; Has green nose discharge; Has a fever again after thinking she was getting better.
40-year-old male; Feels like a dull, gnawing ache; Wakes him up at night; Better when drinking milk and eating.
65-year-old female; Triggered by tilting her head back to look up; Each attack lasts about 30 seconds; No hearing problems or weakness.
52-year-old male; Feels tired all the time; Has blurry vision on and off.
68-year-old female; Stool is hard and must strain when using the bathroom; No weight loss, belly pain, or fever; Stool is not red or black.
62-year-old male; Worse after walking, better when resting; Sometimes swells up; Never hit knee against anything or fell.
32-year-old male; Wakes up early and cannot go back to sleep; Having difficulty concentrating at work; Cannot seem to stop worrying about his family.
42-year-old female; Overweight; Falls asleep during the day ; Partner complains about snoring at night.
78-year-old female; Slowly gaining weight; Had a heart attack several years ago; Comfortable when sitting or walking slowly, but has trouble when walking up stairs.
39-year-old female; Has dry skin, weight gain, and constipation; Feels very cold when others are hot.
40-year-old male; Worse with spicy and fried foods; Worse if he eats late at night before sleeping; Voice is becoming hoarse; .
34-year-old female; No fever; Had also had a sore throat and cough; No other medical problems.
14-year-old male; Spread from right to left; Has watery eye discharge, but no pain; Has a stuffy nose.
26-year-old male; Has a headache; Has a cough; No fever.
22-year-old male; Worse during spring season; Has sneezing and nose itching; Has eye itching and tearing.
35-year-old male; Pain started after shoveling snow; No leg pain or weakness; No fever or weight loss.
9-year-old male; Stopped crying after 15 minutes; Tongue looks normal; No wheezing or breathing problems.
17-year-old male; Has 5 of them in his mouth; No other sores anywhere else; Takes no drugs or medicines.
40-year-old female; Vagina also itchy; Doesn't hurt to pee; No abdominal pain; No fever.
12-year-old female; Brother has asthma; Recently told she has egg and milk allergies.
30-year-old male; Pain is at edge of eyelid; Hurts to touch it; No change in vision.
30-year-old female; Came on very suddenly; Feels weak all over; Temperature 102.5 at first, but not now.
12-year-old male; Came on hours after playing in woods; Rash red and warm; No fever.